---
layout: post
title: "Distraction"
date: 2020-09-24 12:00:00 -0500
permalink: "/distraction/"
---

Like I've mentioned before in this blog I've been meditating lately. Most of my
meditation is very rudimentary mindfulness meditation - so just sitting and
focusing on the breath and whatnot. I've found it helpful both for improving my
ability to focus and reducing my anxiety.

But I've found that if I stop meditating, I lose the benefits very, very quickly
- within a few days I'm back to square one.

I've been thinking about why that is lately. One thought that's come to mind is
that while meditation is a practice to increase focus and mindfulness, almost
every other activity I engage in is designed specifically to counter that. 

Most activities that I engage in involve a screen of some type - a phone, or a
TV, or a computer screen. And those screens are delivering a non stop, constant
barrage of attempts to get your focus. Adds, push notifications, fancy
animations, blinking red lights, unread message indications - they're all things
that say "Hey, look at me! Pay attention to ME!" and they're that way because
what they're trying to do is re-orient your focus from something else to them.
Of course, right? A push notification is meant to capture your attention and say
"Something happened". An add, more nefariously, is trying to capture your
attention to buy something. A blinking unread indicator is trying to get your
attention to notify you that something important happened. The purpose of all of
these things is to pull your attention from something else to them. 

It's even more true within some of the programs that I'll use in any given day.
If you open YouTube and just scroll down the feed, every video you pass is
trying, desperately, to capture your attention. To be clear, they're not
actively _trying_ to destroy your ability to focus, they're just trying to stand
out from the crowd. And this effort for every piece of content to stand out
leads to an evolutionary arms race of attention capturing technology. One thing
I've noticed lately is that the still images on YouTube videos have become
*extremely* bright, loud, and over the top. Again, in an effort to get you to
watch the video.

I want to reiterate that for most of these distraction sources I really don't
think anything nefarious is happening. Rather, this is a natural evolution of
the mechanism of communication that the internet offers. I suspect, however,
that this evolution of attention grabbing is having a real deleterious affect on
our ability to focus.

Naturally, when we're barraged with this constant distraction engine for most of
our waking hours, it's going to take an affect on our ability to focus.

I also suspect that my inability to focus fuels a lot of my anxiety. I'll bet
that just the action of your brain constantly searching for new stimuli creates
anxiety.
