---
layout: post
Title: "The problem with buying stuff"
date: 2020-04-26
permalink: "/dont-buy-a-bigger-mattress/"
---

One of the things I've strived to do in my life is to limit the amount of
_stuff_ I have and the niceness of whatever that _stuff_ that I'm using is with
varying degrees of success. I've had mixed success  on tech - I've bought nice
computers and phones and whatnot, though that's slowing down now. I've been
pretty good with housing - my wife and I live in a very small apartment that's
pretty cheap and we don't have much _stuff_ to fit in there.

My rationale for trying to limit the niceness of the stuff that I buy is that in
my experience whenever you make an upgrade to a nicer _thing_, whatever that
_thing_ may be, you set a new floor on what you consider acceptable. For example
, let's say you currently own a full size mattress. It's fine, but you sure
  would love some extra leg space. So you buy a queen sized mattress. You've now
set the floor for what's acceptable when it comes to mattresses. If you were to
be forced to use a full sized mattress again, my experience is that you would now find it
significantly less comfortable than you did before, because your new floor of
acceptable sizes for a mattress has been bumped up to queen.

The reasonable counter to that idea is that you set the new floor because the
new _thing_ is nice, and you're that much happier because you have this new nice
_thing_. But I've found that I'm actually not that much happier. As a matter of
fact, often these sorts of upgrades make no discernible difference in my level
of happiness at all\*.

But what they do do is remove my ability to be happy with whatever calibre of
thing I had before I upgraded. So, in reality, getting better _stuff_ limits the
avenues I have because my standard has been raised, and going below my standard
causes active unhappiness.

I was making breakfast this morning and I thought of a decent way of
conceptualizing the issue.

Imagine we all have a sort of comfort bubble, surrounded by a plastic shell. The
plastic shell represents things that impede on your comfort - small house, old
car, noisy neighbors, etc etc. When you buy a bigger house, the assumption is
that the plastic shell is pushed farther away and thus you're permanently more
comfortable. The problem is that while that shell has been pushed away, your
bubble is always expanding to fill whatever space it can - so in a small amount
of time you'll be just as close to that "discomfort" shell as before.

What I'm trying to get at here is that in my experience I'm always operating at
the same level of general discomfort. That's true of the time of my life where I
lived with two other people in a studio apartment and the time of my life where
I had my own one bedroom apartment. It's different things that are causing the
discomfort, but it's always the same amount of discomfort. It makes trying to
solve the individual discomforts seem less important because other discomforts
will just take their place.

I think this is caused by the fact that many of us are always searching for the problem
to be fixed. And there are always problems to be fixed, so that's what our
mental energy is focused on. Fix one problem and a new problem will present
itself because your mind is actively hunting for problems to fix.

I have no answer to that problem so there's no advice in this blog post. Just an
observation of a personal phenomena.



\* There are obvious exceptions to this rule. If you have two people sleeping on
a twin mattress, that is uncomfortable enough that it's probably making you not
want to sleep with that other person, and upgrading to a queen or full or
whatever mattress _will_ have a meaningful impact on your happiness. It's all
relative, man.
